# if 

The Python `if` statement is typical of `if` statements in most procedural languages. It takes the form of an `if` test, followed by one or more optional `elif` (“else if”) tests and a final optional `else` block. The tests and the `else` part each have an associated block of nested statements, indented under a header line. When the `if` statement runs, Python executes the block of code associated with the first test that evaluates to true, or the `else` block if all tests prove false. The general form of an `if` statement looks like this:

```
if test1:			# if test
	statements1 	# Associated block
elif test2:			# Optional elifs
	statements2
else:				# Optional else
	statements3
```

> All parts are optional, except the initial `if` test and its associated statements.

**Examples**:

```
>>> if 1:				# 1 is Boolean true, so this statement’s test always succeeds.
... 	print('true') 
...
true

>>> if not 1:			# To handle a false result
... 	print('true') 
... else:
... 	print('false') 
...
false
```



## Multiway Branching

> If you’ve used languages like C or Pascal, you might be interested to know that there is no switch or case statement in Python that selects an action based on a variable’s value.

**you usually code multiway branching as a series of if/elif tests**

```
>>> choice = 'ham'					# The equivalent if statement
>>> if choice == 'spam': 
... 	print(1.25) 
... elif choice == 'ham': 
... 	print(1.99) 
... elif choice == 'eggs': 
... 	print(0.99) 
... elif choice == 'bacon': 
... 	print(1.10) 
... else:
... 	print('Bad choice') 
...
1.99
```

and **occasionally by indexing dictionaries or searching lists**. Because dictionaries and lists can be built at runtime dynamically, they are sometimes more flexible than hardcoded if logic in your script:

**this dictionary is a multiway branch-indexing on the key choice branches to one of a set of values**

```
>>> choice = 'ham'
>>> print({'spam': 1.25, 			# A dictionary-based 'switch'
... 	   'ham': 1.99, 			# Use has_key or get for default
... 	   'eggs': 0.99, 
... 	   'bacon': 1.10}[choice])
1.99
```

**dictionary defaults can be coded with in expressions, get method calls, or exception catching with the try statement** . All of the same techniques can be used here to code a default action in a dictionary-based multiway branch.

```
>>> branch = {'spam': 1.25, 
... 		  'ham': 1.99, 
... 		  'eggs': 0.99}

>>> print(branch.get('spam', 'Bad choice')) 
1.25
>>> print(branch.get('bacon', 'Bad choice')) 
Bad choice
```

An `in` membership test in an `if` statement can have the same default effect:

```
>>> choice = 'bacon'
>>> if choice in branch:
... 	print(branch[choice]) 
... else:
... 	print('Bad choice') 
...
Bad choice
```

dictionaries can also contain functions to represent more complex branch actions and implement general jump tables. Such functions appear as dictionary values, they may be coded as function names or inline lambdas, and they are called by adding parentheses to trigger their actions.

> ```
> def function(): ... 
> def default(): ...
>
> branch = {'spam': lambda: ..., 		# A table of callable function objects
> 		  'ham': function, 
> 		  'eggs': lambda: ...}
>
> branch.get(choice, default)()
> ```

Although **dictionary-based multiway branching** is useful in programs that deal with more dynamic data, most programmers will probably find that coding an if statement is the most straightforward way to perform multiway branching. As a rule of thumb in coding, **when in doubt, err on the side of simplicity and readability**; it’s the “Pythonic” way.



## Truth Values and Boolean Tests

Python’s Boolean operators are a bit different from their counterparts in languages like C. In Python:

- **All objects have an inherent Boolean true or false value.**


- **Any nonzero number or nonempty object is true.**



- **Zero numbers, empty objects, and the special object `None` are considered false.**



- **Comparisons and equality tests are applied recursively to data structures.**



- **Comparisons and equality tests return `True` or `False` (custom versions of `1` and `0` ).**



- **Boolean `and` and `or` operators return a true or false operand object.**



- **Boolean operators stop evaluating (“short circuit”) as soon as a result is known.**

The `if` statement takes action on truth values, but Boolean operators are used to combine the results of other tests in richer ways to produce new truth values. there are three Boolean expression operators in Python:

```
X or Y
# Is true if either X or Y is true

X and Y 
# Is true if both X and Y are true 

not X
# Is true if X is false (the expression returns True or False)
```

These are the Boolean operations, ordered by ascending priority:

| Operation | Result                                   | Notes |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----- |
| `x or y`  | if *x* is false, then *y*, else *x*      | (1)   |
| `x and y` | if *x* is false, then *x*, else *y*      | (2)   |
| `not x`   | if *x* is false, then `True`, else `False` | (3)   |

Notes:

1. This is a short-circuit operator, so it only evaluates the second argument if the first one is false.
2. This is a short-circuit operator, so it only evaluates the second argument if the first one is true.
3. `not` has a lower priority than non-Boolean operators, so `not a == b` is interpreted as `not (a == b)`, and `a == not b` is a syntax error.



X and Y may be any truth value, or any expression that returns a truth value (e.g., an equality test, range comparison, and so on).Boolean operators are typed out as words in Python (instead of C’s &&, ||, and !).

Boolean `and` and `or` operators return a `true` or `false` object in Python, not the values True or False.

```
>>> 2 < 3, 3 < 2 		# Less than: return True or False (1 or 0)
(True, False)

# Magnitude comparisons such as these return True or False as their truth results,are really just custom versions of the integers 1 and 0
```

the `and` and `or` operators always return an object—either the object on the left side of the operator or the object on the right.

**For `or` tests, Python evaluates the operand objects from left to right and returns the first one that is true**. Moreover, Python stops at the first true operand it finds. This is usually called **short-circuit evaluation**

```
>>> 2 or 3, 3 or 2 		# Return left operand if true
(2, 3)					# Else, return right operand (true or false)
>>> [] or 3 
3
>>> [] or {} 
{}
```

> In the first line of the preceding example, both operands (2 and 3) are true (i.e., are nonzero), so Python always stops and returns the one on the left—it determines the result because true `or` anything is always true.

> In the other two tests, **the left operand is false** (an empty object), so **Python simply evaluates and returns the object on the right**—**which may happen to have either a true or a false value when tested**.

**Python `and` operations also stop as soon as the result is known**; however, in this case Python evaluates the operands from left to right and stops if the left operand is a `false` object because it determines the result—false `and` anything is always false:

```
>>> 2 and 3, 3 and 2 		# Return left operand if false
(3, 2)						# Else, return right operand (true or false)
>>> [] and {} 
[]
>>> 3 and [] 
[]
```

> Here, both operands are true in the first line, so Python evaluates both sides and returns the object on the right. 
>
> In the second test, the left operand is false (`[]`), so Python stops and returns it as the test result. 
>
> In the last test, the left side is true (`3`), so Python evaluates and returns the object on the right—which happens to be a false `[]`.



## The if/else Ternary Expression

> ```
> if X:
> 	A = Y 
> else:
> 	A = Z
> ```

Python 2.5 introduced a new expression format that allows us to say the same thing in one expression:

```
A = Y if X else Z
```

examples:

```
>>> A = 't' if 'spam' else 'f'		# For strings, nonempty means true
>>> A 
't'
>>> A = 't' if '' else 'f'
>>> A 
'f'
```

the same effect can often be achieved by a careful combination of the `and` and `or` operators

```
A = ((X and Y) or Z)
```

you have to be able to assume that Y will be Boolean true. If that is the case, the effect is the same: the `and` runs first and returns Y if X is true; if X if false the `and` skips Y, and the `or` simply returns `Z`.

using the following expression in Python is similar because the `bool` function will translate X into the equivalent of integer `1` or `0` , which can then be used as offsets to pick true and false values from a list:

```
A = [Z, Y][bool(X)]
```

example:

```
>>> ['f', 't'][bool('')] 
'f'
>>> ['f', 't'][bool('spam')] 
't'
```



## Why You Will Care: Booleans

Python Boolean operators is to select from a set of objects with an or. A statement such as this:

```
X = A or B or C or None
```

> assigns X to the first nonempty (that is, true) object among A, B, and C, or to None if all of them are empty.



if `f1` returns a true (or nonempty) value, Python will never run `f2`.

```
if f1() or f2(): ...
```

To guarantee that both functions will be run, call them before the `or`:

```
tmp1, tmp2 = f1(), f2() 
if tmp1 or tmp2: ...
```



# while Loops

Python’s while statement is the most general iteration construct in the language. In simple terms, it repeatedly executes a block of (normally indented) statements as long as a test at the top keeps evaluating to a true value. It is called a “loop” because control keeps looping back to the start of the statement until the test becomes false. When the test becomes false, control passes to the statement that follows the while block. The net effect is that the loop’s body is executed repeatedly while the test at the top is true. If the test is false to begin with, the body never runs and the while statement is skipped.



### General Format

In its most complex form, the while statement consists of a header line with a test expression, a body of one or more normally indented statements, and an optional else part that is executed if control exits the loop without a break statement being encountered. Python keeps evaluating the test at the top and executing the statements nested in the loop body until the test returns a false value:

```
while test:			# Loop test
	statements 		# Loop body
else:				# Optional else 
	statements		# Run if didn't exit loop with break
```

#### Examples:

```
>>> x = 'spam'
>>> while x:				# While x is not empty
... 	print(x, end=' ') 	# In 2.X use print x,
... 	x = x[1:] 			# Strip first character off x
...
spam pam am m
```

counts from the value of a up to, but not including, b:

```
>>> a=0; b=10
>>> while a < b:			# One way to code counter loops
... 	print(a, end=' ') 
... 	a += 1				# Or, a = a + 1
...
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
```

```
while True:
	...loop body...
	if exitTest(): break
```



# General Loop Format

Factoring in `break` and `continue` statements, the general format of the `while` loop looks like this:

```
while test1:
	statements 
	if test2 : break 		# Exit loop now, skip else if present 
	if test3: continue 		# Go to top of loop now, to test1
else:
	statements				# Run if we didn't hit a 'break'
```

`break` and `continue` statements can appear anywhere inside the `while` ( or `for` ) loop’s body, but they are usually coded further nested in an if test to take action in response to some condition.



# break 

**Jumps out of the closest enclosing loop (past the entire loop statement).** Because the code that follows it in the loop is not executed if the `break` is reached, you can also sometimes avoid nesting by including a `break`.

inputs data with `input` (known as `raw_input` in Python 2.X) and exits when the user enters “stop” for the name request:

```
>>> while True:
...		name = input('Enter name:')		# Use raw_input() in 2.X
... 	if name == 'stop': break 
... 	age = input('Enter age: ') 
... 	print('Hello', name, '=>', int(age) ** 2) 
...
Enter name:bob 
Enter age: 40 
Hello bob => 1600 
Enter name:sue 
Enter age: 30 Hello sue => 900 
Enter name:stop
```





# continue

**Jumps to the top of the closest enclosing loop (to the loop’s header line).** It also sometimes lets you avoid statement nesting.

skip odd numbers:

```
x = 10 
while x:
	x = x−1 					# Or, x -= 1
	if x % 2 != 0: continue 	# Odd? -- skip print. hit continue, go to while x
	print(x, end=' ')			# it prints 8 6 4 2 0
```



```
res = [2]
for x in [1,2,3,4]:
    if x in res: continue		# skip 2. hit continue, go to  for x in [1,2,3,4]:
    print(x)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1
3
4
```



# pass 

**Does nothing at all, it’s an empty statement placeholder. It is often used to code an empty body for a compound statement.**

A `pass` is also sometime coded to mean “to be filled in later,” to stub out the bodies of functions temporarily:

```
def func1(): 
	pass			# Add real code here later
def func2(): 
	pass
```

We can’t leave the body empty without getting a syntax error, so we say `pass` instead.

#### Version skew note `...`  :

Python 3.X (but not 2.X) allows ellipses coded as `...` (literally, three consecutive dots) to appear any place an expression can. Because ellipses do nothing by themselves, this can serve as an alternative to the pass statement, especially for code to be filled in later—a sort of Python “TBD”(未确定内容):

```
def func1():
	...				# Alternative to pass

def func2():
	...

func1()				# Does nothing if called
```

Ellipses can also appear on the same line as a statement header and may be used to initialize variable names if no specific type is required:

```
def func1(): ... 			# Works on same line too
def func2(): ...

>>> X = ...					# Alternative to None
>>> X 
Ellipsis
```





# Loop else block

**Runs if and only if the loop is exited normally (i.e., without hitting a break)**

When combined with the loop else clause, the break statement can often eliminate the need for the search status flags used in other languages.

**For instance:**

> the following piece of code determines whether a positive integer y is prime by searching for factors greater than 1:

```
x = y // 2 							# For some y > 1 
while x > 1:
	if y % x == 0:					# Remainder 
		print(y, 'has factor', x) 
		break 						# Skip else 
	x -= 1 
else:								# Normal exit
	print(y, 'is prime')
```

Rather than setting a flag to be tested when the loop is exited, it inserts a break where a factor is found. This way, the loop else clause can assume that it will be executed only if no factor is found; if you don’t hit the break, the number is prime. 



**it is a coding structure that lets us catch the “other” way out of a loop**

**For instance:**

> that we are writing a loop to search a list for a value, and we need to know whether the value was found after we exit the loop.

```
found = False 
while x and not found:
	if match(x[0]):					# Value at front?
		print('Ni') 
		found = True 
	else:
		x = x[1:] 					# Slice off front and repeat
if not found:
	print('not found')
```

Here’s an else equivalent:

```
while x:				# Exit when x empty
	if match(x[0]):
		print('Ni') 
		break			# Exit, go around else
	x = x[1:] 
else:
	print('Not found')	# Only here if exhausted x
```

> Because the `break` inside the main part of the `while` exits the loop and goes around the `else`, this serves as a more structured way to catch the search-failure case.



**You can move the assignment into the loop body with a `break`**:

```
while True:
	x = next(obj) 
	if not x: break 
	...process x...
```

or move the assignment into the loop with tests:

```
x = True 
while x:
	x = next(obj) 
	if x:
		...process x...
```

or move the first assignment outside the loop:

```
x = next(obj) 
while x:
	...process x... 
	x = next(obj)
```



# for Loops

The for loop is a generic iterator in Python: it can step through the items in any ordered sequence or other iterable object. 

> The for statement works on strings, lists, tuples, and other built-in iterables, as well as new user-defined objects

The Python for loop begins with a header line that specifies an assignment target (or targets), along with the object you want to step through. The header is followed by a block of (normally indented) statements that you want to repeat:

```
for target in object:		# Assign object items to target 
	statements 				# Repeated loop body: use target 
else:						# Optional else part 
	statements				# If we didn't hit a 'break'
```

When Python runs a `for` loop, it assigns the items in the iterable object to the target one by one and executes the loop body for each. The loop body typically uses the assignment target to refer to the current item in the sequence as though it were a cursor stepping through the sequence.

```
for target in object:			# Assign object items to target
	statements 
	if test: break 				# Exit loop now, skip else 
	if test: continue 			# Go to top of loop now
else:
	statements					# If we didn't hit a 'break', run else
```

#### List Example:

```
>>> for x in ["spam", "eggs", "ham"]: 
... 	print(x, end=' ') 
...
spam eggs ham

>>> sum = 0
>>> for x in [1, 2, 3, 4]: 
... 	sum = sum + x 
...
>>> sum 
10
>>> prod = 1
>>> for item in [1, 2, 3, 4]: prod *= item 
...
>>> prod 
24
```

#### String & Tuple Example:

```
>>> S = "lumberjack"
>>> T = ("and", "I'm", "okay")

>>> for x in S: print(x, end=' ') 		# Iterate over a string
...
l u m b e r j a c k

>>> for x in T: print(x, end=' ') 		# Iterate over a tuple
...
and I'm okay
```

assign manually within the loop to unpack:

```
>>> T 
[(1, 2), (3, 4), (5, 6)]

>>> for both in T: 
... 	a, b = both 	# Manual assignment equivalent
... 	print(a, b) 
...
1 2 
3 4 
5 6
```



#### iterating through a sequence of tuples:

```
>>> T = [(1, 2), (3, 4), (5, 6)]
>>> for (a, b) in T: 			# Tuple assignment at work
...		print(a, b) 
...
1 2
3 4
5 6
```

#### Dictionary:

```
>>> D = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
>>> for key in D:
... 	print(key, '=>', D[key]) 		# Use dict keys iterator and index
...
a => 1 
c => 3 
b => 2

>>> list(D.items()) 			# dictionaries using the items method
[('a', 1), ('c', 3), ('b', 2)]

>>> for (key, value) in D.items(): 
... 	print(key, '=>', value) 		# Iterate over both keys and values
...
a => 1 
c => 3 
b => 2
```

#### Nested Structures :

```
>>> ((a, b), c) = ((1, 2), 3)		# Nested sequences work too
>>> a, b, c 
(1, 2, 3)

>>> for ((a, b), c) in [((1, 2), 3), ((4, 5), 6)]: print(a, b, c) 
...
1 2 3 
4 5 6
```

Any nested sequence structure may be unpacked this way, simply because sequence assignment is so generic:

```
>>> for ((a, b), c) in [([1, 2], 3), ['XY', 6]]: print(a, b, c) 
...
1 2 3 
X Y 6
```

### Python 3.X extended sequence assignment in for loops

**The only difference is that slicing returns a type-specific result, whereas starred names always are assigned lists**

In Python 3.X,:

```
>>> a, *b, c = (1, 2, 3, 4)		# Extended seq assignment
>>> a, b, c
(1, [2, 3], 4)

>>> for (a, *b, c) in [(1, 2, 3, 4), (5, 6, 7, 8)]: 	# in 3.X
... 	print(a, b, c) 
...
1 [2, 3] 4 
5 [6, 7] 8
```

In Python 2.X starred names aren’t allowed, but you can achieve similar effects by slicing:

```
>>> for all in [(1, 2, 3, 4), (5, 6, 7, 8)]: 		# Manual slicing in 2.X
... 	a, b, c = all[0], all[1:3], all[3] 
... 	print(a, b, c) 
...
1 (2, 3) 4 
5 (6, 7) 8
```

### Nested for loops

this code searches for each key in the objects list and reports on the search’s outcome:

```
>>> items = ["aaa", 111, (4, 5), 2.01]		# A set of objects
>>> tests = [(4, 5), 3.14]					# Keys to search for
>>>
>>> for key in tests:						# For all keys
... 	for item in items:					# For all items
... 		if item == key:					# Check for match
... 		print(key, "was found") 
... 		break 
... 	else:
... 		print(key, "not found!") 
...
(4, 5) was found
3.14 not found!
```

> there are two loops going at the same time: **the outer loop scans the keys list, and the inner loop scans the items list for each key.** 
>
> The nesting of the loop else clause is critical; it’s indented to the same level as the header line of the inner for loop, so it’s associated with the inner loop, not the if or the outer for.



Because `in` implicitly scans an object looking for a match (at least logically), it replaces the inner loop:

```
>>> items = ["aaa", 111, (4, 5), 2.01]		# A set of objects
>>> tests = [(4, 5), 3.14]					# Keys to search for
>>> for key in tests:						# For all keys
... 	if key in items:					# Let Python check for a match
... 		print(key, "was found") 
... 	else:
... 		print(key, "not found!") 
...
(4, 5) was found 
3.14 not found!
```



collecting common items in two sequences (strings)—and serves as a rough set **intersection** routine. `res` refers to a list that contains all the items found in `seq1` and `seq2`:

```
>>> seq1 = "spam"
>>> seq2 = "scam"
>>>
>>> res = []				# Start empty
>>> for x in seq1:			# Scan first sequence
... 	if x in seq2: 		# Common item?
... 		res.append(x) 	# Add to result end
...
>>> res 
['s', 'a', 'm']
```

list comprehension:

```
>>> [x for x in seq1 if x in seq2] 		# Let Python collect results
['s', 'a', 'm']
```



# Loop Coding Techniques

The `for` loop we just studied subsumes most counter-style loops. It’s generally simpler to code and often quicker to run than a `while`, so it’s the first tool you should reach for **whenever you need to step through a sequence or other iterable**. In fact, as a general rule, **you should resist the temptation to count things in Python**—its iteration tools automate much of the work you do to loop over collections in lower-level languages like C.



> what if you need to visit every second or third item in a list, or change the list along the way? How about traversing more than one sequence in parallel, in the same for loop? What if you need indexes too?

You can always code such unique iterations with a `while` loop and manual indexing, but Python provides a set of built-ins that allow you to specialize the iteration in a `for`:

- The built-in `range` function produces a series of successively higher integers, which can be used as indexes in a `for`.


- The built-in `zip` function (available since Python 2.0) returns a series of parallel-item tuples, which can be used to traverse multiple sequences in a `for`.


- The built-in `enumerate` function (available since Python 2.3) generates both the values and indexes of items in an iterable, so we don’t need to count manually.


- The built-in `map` function (available since Python 1.0) can have a similar effect to `zip` in Python 2.X, though this role is removed in 3.X.

**Because `for` loops may run quicker than `while` based counter loops**



### Counter Loops: range

Note that `for` loops force results from `range` automatically in 3.X, so we don’t need to use a `list` wrapper here in 3.X (in 2.X we get a temporary list unless we call `xrange` instead).

repeat an action a specific number of times.

```
>>> for i in range(3):
... print(i, 'Pythons') 
...
0 Pythons 
1 Pythons 
2 Pythons
```



### Sequence Scans: while and range Versus for

for loop handles the details of the iteration automatically:

```
>>> X = 'spam'
>>> for item in X: print(item, end=' ') 
...
s p a m
```

take over the indexing logic explicitly:

```
>>> X = 'spam'
>>> i = 0
>>> while i < len(X):			# while loop iteration
... 	print(X[i], end=' ') 
... 	i += 1 
...
s p a m
```

You can also do manual indexing with a `for`, though, if you use `range` to generate a list of indexes to iterate through. It’s a multistep process, but it’s sufficient to generate offsets, rather than the items at those offsets:

```
>>> X 
'spam'
>>> len(X) 											# Length of string
4
>>> list(range(len(X))) 							# All legal offsets into X
[0, 1, 2, 3]
>>>
>>> for i in range(len(X)): print(X[i], end=' ') 	# Manual range/len iteration
...
s p a m
```

> Note that because this example is stepping over a list of offsets into X, not the actual items of X, we need to index back into X within the loop to fetch each item. If this seems like overkill, though, it’s because it is: there’s really no reason to work this hard in this example.

you’re better off **using the simple `for` loop form** in Python:

```
>>> for item in X: print(item, end=' ')		# Use simple iteration if you can
```

**As a general rule, use `for` instead of `while` whenever possible, and don’t use `range` calls in `for` loops except as a last resort.**



### Sequence Shufflers: range and len

> ```
> >>> S = 'spam'
> >>> for i in range(len(S)): 	# For repeat counts 0..3
> ... 	S = S[1:] + S[:1] 		# Move front item to end
> ... 	print(S, end=' ') 
> ...
> pams amsp mspa spam
> ```
>
> doesn’t change the original variable as it goes

you shuffle a list, you create reordered lists:

```
>>> L = [1, 2, 3]
>>> for i in range(len(L)): 
... 	X = L[i:] + L[:i] 		# Works on any sequence type
...		print(X, end=' ') 
...
[1, 2, 3] [2, 3, 1] [3, 1, 2]
```



### Nonexhaustive Traversals(非完备遍历): range Versus Slices

the range/len combination to skip items：

```
>>> S = 'abcdefghijk'
>>> list(range(0, len(S), 2)) 
[0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

>>> for i in range(0, len(S), 2): print(S[i], end=' ') 
...
a c e g i k
```

skip items in a sequence, the extended three-limit form of the slice expression, provides a simpler route

```
>>> S = 'abcdefghijk'
>>> for c in S[::2]: print(c, end=' ') 	slicing makes a copy of the string in both 2.X and 3.X
...
a c e g i k
```

The potential advantage to using range here instead is space: slicing makes a copy of the string in both 2.X and 3.X, while range in 3.X and xrange in 2.X do not create a list; for very large strings, they may **save memory**.



### Changing Lists: range Versus Comprehensions

change a list as it is being traversed：

```
>>> L = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
>>> for x in L: 
... 	x += 1 		# Changes x, not L
...
>>> L 
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
>>> x 
6
```

> it changes the loop variable x, not the list L.
>



To really change the list as we march across it, we need to use indexes so we can assign an updated value to each position as we go：

```
>>> L = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

>>> for i in range(len(L)): 		# Add one to each item in L
... 	L[i] += 1 					# Or L[i] = L[i] + 1
...
>>> L 
[2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

> the list is changed as we proceed through the loop.
>
> There is no way to do the same with a simple `for x in L:`–style loop, because such a loop iterates through actual items, not list positions.



run more slowly:

```
>>> L = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
>>> i = 0
>>> while i < len(L): 
... 	L[i] += 1 
... 	i += 1 
...
>>> L 
[3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
```

A list comprehension expression of the form:

```
[x + 1 for x in L]
```

> without changing the original list in place (we could assign the expression’s new list object result back to L, but this would not update any other references to the original list)



### zip()

go to Built-in Functions, zip()



### Generating Both Offsets and Items: enumerate

a simple `for` loop that also kept a counter of the current offset:

```
>>> S = 'spam'
>>> offset = 0
>>> for item in S:
... 	print(item, 'appears at offset', offset) 
... 	offset += 1 
...
s appears at offset 0 
p appears at offset 1 
a appears at offset 2 
m appears at offset 3
```

`enumerate` in all recent Python 2.X and 3.X releases (since 2.3), give loops a counter “for free” :

```
>>> S = 'spam'
>>> for (offset, item) in enumerate(S):
... 	print(item, 'appears at offset', offset) 
...
s appears at offset 0 
p appears at offset 1 
a appears at offset 2 
m appears at offset 3
```

